chia-seed-pudding.md, before:

---
title: 🥣 Chia seed pudding
tags: food
description: Chia seed pudding
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/3540691454/1535710532/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">🥣 Chia seed pudding</h1>

# Amount

- Approximate: 3:1 water and/or milk to seed ratio
- Chia seeds: Start with 3 tablespoons per normal sized bowl

# Ingredients

## Base

- Water and/or milk of choice
    - Hemp, coconut, and oak milks work well
- Chia seeds

## Extras

- Fresh or frozen fruit of choice, e.g. Strawberries, papaya, etc.
- Nuts of choice, e.g. Walnuts, almonds, peanuts, etc.
- Vanilla extract
- Cinnamon
- Hemp hearts for extra protein
- Stevia for sweetness
- [Cacao](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uQgKJL7RJrTIoss0a7iifNucn4-2jng6PVAqb8u__xk/edit#bookmark=id.b0n7tjphmn5g) for extra protein and nutrients
- Peanut butter or other type of nut butters
- Matcha green tea for caffeine
- etc.

# Optional steps

- Let the pudding sit in the fridge for 10 min or overnight for a thicker consistency

Commit message:

Feature: Chia seed pudding chia seed freshness

chia-seed-pudding.md, after:

---
title: 🥣 Chia seed pudding
tags: food
description: Chia seed pudding
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/3540691454/1535710532/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">🥣 Chia seed pudding</h1>

# Amount

- Approximate: 3:1 water and/or milk to seed ratio
- Chia seeds: Start with 3 tablespoons per normal sized bowl

# Ingredients

## Base

- Water and/or milk of choice
    - Hemp, coconut, and oak milks work well
- Chia seeds

## Extras

- Fresh or frozen fruit of choice, e.g. Strawberries, papaya, etc.
- Nuts of choice, e.g. Walnuts, almonds, peanuts, etc.
- Vanilla extract
- Cinnamon
- Hemp hearts for extra protein
- Stevia for sweetness
- [Cacao](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uQgKJL7RJrTIoss0a7iifNucn4-2jng6PVAqb8u__xk/edit#bookmark=id.b0n7tjphmn5g) for extra protein and nutrients
- Peanut butter or other type of nut butters
- Matcha green tea for caffeine
- etc.

## Optional steps

- Let the pudding sit in the fridge for 10 min or overnight for a thicker consistency

## Freshness

- The freshness of the chia seeds potentially impacts how quickly they expand and thicken the pudding
- The older/less fresh the seeds are the longer it may take to thicken
