coffee/coffee-brewing.md, before:

---
title: ☕️ Coffee brewing
tags: food
description: Coffee brewing
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/3540691454/1535710532/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">☕️ Coffee brewing</h1>

# Pour over

#### Grind

1. Amount: 2 - 4 tbsp. of beans per serving (10.6 g or 0.38 oz.)
2. Time: 12 - 15s
3. Finer grinds
    1. Provide more surface area for the water.
    2. Longer extraction time

#### Hot

1. Brew from 195º - 205ºF
2. Slowly pour over the filter, waiting for water to pass through the filter before pouring more water.

#### Iced

- Quick method
  1. Let the brewed coffee sit for two 2 min.
  2. Pour the brewed coffee into an iced container and refrigerate.
- Complete method
  1. Grind the coffee beans to a coarse size
  2. Steep the grinds in cool water and refrigerate for 12 hours
  3. Filter the coffee through a coffee filter
  - *See [Cold brew](https://eprize-content.s3.amazonaws.com/starbucks/256288_Starbucks_Odyssey/benefits/q2_2023/d141d8978a6ee4eed78c9405762b2bf2_cold_brew_instructions.pdf) by Starbucks Coffee Academy*

#### V60 vs Chemex

- A V60 produces better flavor: The groves in the V60 allow the oxygen and steam to vent out the side groves leaving more flavor in the beans

#### Resources

- 12 ounces lasts ~14 days brewing 4 tablespoons per day
- [Pour Over Coffee: The Beginners Guide](https://www.homegrounds.co/pour-over-coffee-guide) *by homegrounds.co*
- [How Long To Grind Coffee Beans?](https://pageonecoffee.com/how-long-to-grind-coffee-beans) *by PageOneCoffee*
- [How to Grind Coffee](https://www.konacoffeebeans.org/how-to/how-to-grind-coffee-the-only-guide-youll-ever-need) *by Kona Coffee Buzz*

# Drip machine

*See [Grind](#Grind)*

#### Bean-to-water ratio

- 6-8 oz water per 2 tbsp. of coffee
- 8 oz per 1 cup
- Resources
    - [How Much Coffee For Drip Coffee Maker?](https://artofbarista.com/how-much-coffee-for-drip-coffee-maker/) *by Art Of Barista*
    - [Here's the secret to a really good cup of drip coffee](https://www.today.com/food/how-make-coffee-drip-coffee-maker-t174977) *by Today*

# Additions

#### Options

- Vanilla, turmeric, [cacao](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-XOXK9P1P8KA9coZqC84ZTpl_78nO1DT6eY8kxcu174/edit#heading=h.96y81rpr2i5w), cinnamon, and etc.

#### Add supplements before brew

1. Add cream/milk of choice (Don't do this if the beans are good quality as it will mask the flavor).
2. Stir in options.
3. Complete [pour over](#Pour-over) or [drip machine](#Drip-machine) steps.
4. Stir to mix.

#### Add supplements after brew

1. Complete [pour over](#Pour-over) or [drip machine](#Drip-machine) steps.
2. Add cream/milk of choice in a separate container.
3. Stir in options.
4. Pour into brewed coffee.

Commit message:

Feature: Traveling with reusable hemp coffee  filter

coffee/coffee-brewing.md, after:

---
title: ☕️ Coffee brewing
tags: food
description: Coffee brewing
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/3540691454/1535710532/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">☕️ Coffee brewing</h1>

# Pour over

#### Grind

1. Amount: 2 - 4 tbsp. of beans per serving (10.6 g or 0.38 oz.)
2. Time: 12 - 15s
3. Finer grinds
    1. Provide more surface area for the water.
    2. Longer extraction time

#### Hot

1. Brew from 195º - 205ºF
2. Slowly pour over the filter, waiting for water to pass through the filter before pouring more water.

#### Iced

- Quick method
  1. Brew the pour over normally and let the brewed coffee sit for a few minutes.
  2. Pour the brewed coffee into an iced container and refrigerate.
- Complete method
  1. Grind the coffee beans to a coarse size
  2. Steep the grinds in cool water and refrigerate for 12 hours
  3. Filter the coffee through a coffee filter
  - *See [Cold brew](https://eprize-content.s3.amazonaws.com/starbucks/256288_Starbucks_Odyssey/benefits/q2_2023/d141d8978a6ee4eed78c9405762b2bf2_cold_brew_instructions.pdf) by Starbucks Coffee Academy*

#### V60 vs Chemex

- A V60 produces better flavor: The groves in the V60 allow the oxygen and steam to vent out the side groves leaving more flavor in the beans

#### Travel

- Use a hair dryer to dry a reusable hemp coffee filter if traveling the same day

#### Resources

- 12 ounces lasts ~14 days brewing 4 tablespoons per day
- [Pour Over Coffee: The Beginners Guide](https://www.homegrounds.co/pour-over-coffee-guide) *by homegrounds.co*
- [How Long To Grind Coffee Beans?](https://pageonecoffee.com/how-long-to-grind-coffee-beans) *by PageOneCoffee*
- [How to Grind Coffee](https://www.konacoffeebeans.org/how-to/how-to-grind-coffee-the-only-guide-youll-ever-need) *by Kona Coffee Buzz*

# Drip machine

*See [Grind](#Grind)*

#### Bean-to-water ratio

- 6-8 oz water per 2 tbsp. of coffee
- 8 oz per 1 cup
- Resources
    - [How Much Coffee For Drip Coffee Maker?](https://artofbarista.com/how-much-coffee-for-drip-coffee-maker/) *by Art Of Barista*
    - [Here's the secret to a really good cup of drip coffee](https://www.today.com/food/how-make-coffee-drip-coffee-maker-t174977) *by Today*

# Additions

#### Options

- Vanilla, turmeric, [cacao](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-XOXK9P1P8KA9coZqC84ZTpl_78nO1DT6eY8kxcu174/edit#heading=h.96y81rpr2i5w), cinnamon, and etc.

#### Add supplements before brew

1. Add cream/milk of choice (Don't do this if the beans are good quality as it will mask the flavor).
2. Stir in options.
3. Complete [pour over](#Pour-over) or [drip machine](#Drip-machine) steps.
4. Stir to mix.

#### Add supplements after brew

1. Complete [pour over](#Pour-over) or [drip machine](#Drip-machine) steps.
2. Add cream/milk of choice in a separate container.
3. Stir in options.
4. Pour into brewed coffee.
